Add a guide for creating documentation images (#6333)
godotengine/godot-docs: community/contributing/docs_image_guidelines.rst

.. _docs_image_guidelines:

Creating Documentation Images
=============================

Throughout documentation images are often needed to make the explanation
of a feature or concept as clear as possible for a reader. This page will

> explain the process from beginning to end

Reviewer: ```suggestion
explain the process from beginning to end.
```

Capturing an image
------------------

> To take a picture of something in Godot a screen capture tool can be used.
> On Windows 10 and 11 that would be the Snip & Sketch program. 
> 
> On macOS pressing :kbd: `Shift + Command + 3`` lets you take a screenshot
> of a portion of the screen. After pressing those keys click and drag over
> the area you wish to take a picture of. To take a picture of the entire
> screen press :kbd: `Shift + Command + 4`. All screenshots taken will
> be saved to the desktop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To take a picture of something in Godot a screen capture tool can be used.
On Windows 10 and 11 that would be the Snip & Sketch program.
Pressing :kbd:`Windows + Shift + S` lets you take a screenshot
of a portion of the screen and save it to the clipboard.
After pressing those keys, click and drag over
the area you wish to take a picture of.

On macOS, pressing :kbd:`Shift + Command + 3` does the same.
To take a picture of the entire screen press :kbd:`Shift + Command + 4`.
All screenshots taken will be saved to the desktop.
```

Each Linux desktop environment has it's own screenshot tool. For example,
on KDE Plasma the program Spectacle is used for taking screenshots. If your
distribution doesn't come with one by default try searching its package
repository, or Flathub if that's supported.

All screenshots should ideally be taken on a 1080p screen. Anything higher
resolution is adding detail that doesn't make the documentation better and
dramatically increases file size. If you're taking screenshots on a higher
resolution screen the screenshot should be scaled down. There are instructions
on  how to do this later in this page.

Format conversion
-----------------

> The current format for images in Godot's documentation is .Webp. While some

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The current format for images in Godot's documentation is WebP (.webp). While some
```

> linux programs will support saving screenshots in this format, macOS and the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Linux programs will support saving screenshots in this format, macOS and the
```

> Snip & Sketch program on windows do not. For images that don't need editing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Snip & Sketch program on Windows do not. For images that don't need editing
```

> Snip & Sketch program on windows do not. For images that don't need editing
> done to them, such as precise cropping or adding outlines, Squoosh can be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Snip & Sketch program on Windows do not. For images that don't need editing,
such as precise cropping or adding outlines, Squoosh can be used.
```

> `Squoosh <https://squoosh.app/>`_ is a converter developed by google, is open

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Squoosh <https://squoosh.app/>`_ is a converter developed by Google, is open
```

> source, and doesn't give google any image rights by using it. There is also a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
source, and doesn't give Google any image rights by using it. There is also a
```

> experimental CLI version which can be found `here <https://github.com/GoogleChromeLabs/squoosh/tree/dev/cli>`_`

Reviewer: I think the link format needs to be fixed, and a '.' be added at the end of the sentence.

Cropping
--------

For a screenshot of a 2D or 3D scene in the editor the above steps will be enough.
But for most UI images some extra work should be done, specifically cropping to
make an image look clean. Below is an example of good cropping.

.. image:: img/cropped_image.webp

For cropping Krita is the recommended program. While some screenshot programs do
have cropping built in it's not always easy to get something precise. And while
Krita is designed as a painting program the cropping tool gives you pixel precision

> by default. However if there's a different program you use that fits this workflow
> well feel free to use it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by default. Of course, feel free to use a different program you are familiar with.
```

.. image:: img/crop_edit.webp

Click and drag the white boxes to adjust what gets cropped, if you zoom in close
to the image you will see the individual pixels in an image, which is useful for
precision.

.. image:: img/crop_pixels.webp

If you make a mistake and overcrop don't worry, cropping is non-destructive in
Krita and can be adjusted. Click on the image with your cropping tool still selected
and the controls will return.

Scaling down an image
---------------------

As explained earlier on this page, all images taken on a screen that is a higher resolution
than 1080p should be scaled down. To do this in Krita click on **Image** on the top bar, and
from the dropdown menu select **Scale Image To New Size**. This menu can also be opened by
pressing :kbd: `ctrl + alt + I`. On this menu you want to adjust the pixel dimensions. For
anything taken on a 4K monitor change the value of the width and height to half of its current
value, for anything taken on a 1440p monitor multiply the width and height by .75. Make
sure the **Constrain Proportions** box at the bottom of the menu is checked so you only have
to change 1 value.

> Saving as webp in Krita

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Saving as WebP in Krita
```

-----------------------

> To save an image as webp if it isn't already one, Go to **file > save as**. Select **webp** from the

Reviewer: `file > save as` probably is capitalized?
